#Are you doing it right? How your sleeping position can affect your health

Few people pay much attention to the position of their body while they
sleep. Most of us just settle into whatever feels comfortable, and
hopefully drift off into dreamland relatively peacefully. However, there
are medical and physiological impacts to the way you sleep, and you may
be potentially putting yourself at greater risk for certain disorders by
sleeping the "wrong way". 

Here's a quick rundown of the different sleep positions and what they
can mean for your health:

**From Worst to First:**

###Sleep Position: Stomach

**Why it's terrible:**

If you want to put added stress on your joints, muscles, and spine,
sleep on your stomach. If you find yourself waking up in the morning
with more than the typical aches and pains, trying to stop sleeping on
your belly might be a good move. Experts say that sleeping on your
stomach makes it difficult for your spine to remain in a neutral
position, and increases the tension in this complicated and most vital
area. Ask anyone with chronic back pain. Your spine doesn't need any
more work than it already has, thank you very much. 
Potential Exception: If you snore, sleeping on your stomach may help
open up your airways that lead to those disturbing sounds. If your
sleeping partner is fed up with your snoring, and you don't already have
a bad back, give it a shot. It might save your relationship.

###Sleep Position: The Fetal Position

**Why it's not so good:**

Sleeping every night curled up into a little ball may feel comforting to
some, but those who have stuck with this position since they started
doing it in the womb may be causing undue stress on the back and neck.
You could also be restricting your breathing, and who wants that? Try
and straighten it out a little bit, and you'll feel betetr overall. And
get your thumb out of your mouth. Please. It's embarrassing for
everybody.

###Sleep Position: On your Side

**Why it's pretty ok:**

Sleeping on your side can prevent many of the issues caused by prolonged
bouts of spinal tension and curvature, making it less likely to
conribute to back and neck pain. Your spine is able to stay elongated in
this position, which is just how it likes to be. A happy spine is a
happy body. A word of caution, though if you have breasts (especially if
they're real, and fantastic): Sleeping on your side may cause sagging.
But you know, so does gravity, and that's pretty unavoidable. Pro-Tip:
If you're pregnant, sleeping on the left side of your body promotes good
blood flow. Gotta have good blood flow.

###Sleep Position: On your Back

**Why it's the best:**

Sleeping on your back is the best thing you can do to prevent your
nightly snoozes from slowly killing you. Back-sleepers are giving their
spine, neck, and head a break by allowing them to remain in a natural,
neutral position. Other benefits include less chance of acid reflux
(nasty stuff has a hard time moving uphill, so if you're head is
elevated a little, it's a good thing). Additionally, since sleeping on
your back usually means nothing is smushed up against your pretty face
(unless you have a cat) this decreases your chance of premature
wrinkles. Your face needs it's space.

So tonight when you shut it down and climb into bed, remember that how
you sleep can have a huge impact on how you feel, and how you live. So
choose wisely.

Sleep tight, and don't let the bed bugs bite.


