#Quick and Easy Hacks to Keep More of your Money in Your Pocket Without Even Noticing
----

**Learn to cook.** Seriously. It's not that hard to learn to fix 2-3 simple
and nutritious meals for yourself, and get into the habit of cooking for
yourself at least a couple nights a week. The benefits will not only
include saving money (and you will save a LOT of money) but you'll feel
better, look better, and you'll have learned a skill that you can expand
on for the rest of your life. This is probably the easiest, yet most
significant simple change you can make to your lifestyle that will
immediately have a positive impact on your pocketbook as well as your
health.

If you're going to learn to cook, you may as well learn to shop, too.
The last thing you should do is wander into the supermarket without a
plan and start impulsively grabbing whatever looks enticing off the
shelves. Use a shopping planner type site like REDACTED
which allows you to compare supermarket prices as you shop so you can
get the best deals for your groceries. 

Sites like this can also help you formulate your meal-planning, and cut
down on impulse buys in the market. (Protip: Never, ever go into the
supermarket to shop for groceries on an empty stomach. You'll end up
buying WAY more than you intended. If you go shopping when you're not
the least bit hungry, there's much less chance you'll be making
decisions with your stomach, which knows nothing of your budget.)

**Use the library.** So many people take the library for granted, when it's
one of the absolute best places to cut costs. Why buy cookbooks, or
guidebooks, or, quite frankly, ANY books? All of these are free to you
to borrow at the local library. Don't forget that most also have videos
and music available to borrow, too. A truly fantastic resource for the
frugally minded. Depending on your current spending habits, you could
potentially save hundreds per year just by stopping off by the library
rather than the bookshop or the record store.

**Quit smoking.** Nobody needs to remind you again of the health risks and
damage to your health your nasty little habit is causing. But if you
think about the amount of cash you could save by NOT buying a pack a
day, you may begin to wonder if it's worth it. Think about a fabulous
holiday on the beach somewhere that you're cheating yourself out of as
you watch your hard-earned cash go up in smoke. 

When you think about it, there's a million little things that your can
do to save a few quid here and there. And when a million little things
start to add up, all of a sudden, you're talking about REAL MONEY, as
they say. Its not that hard. Start small, and start today.

